---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1 of 100: Goal setting"
categories: 100DaysOfCode
---

**Today's Progress**
1. Purchased my first domain name!
2. Installed jekyll and set up a personal website project (rehema.dev) locally.


**Thoughts**

I'm having some difficulty figuring out what my learning goals should be and the learning path to get there, so the plan I'm about to layout is subject to change.

I'd like to work through a combination of concepts (e.g design patterns) and skills (HTML/CSS) and make sure I'm completing as many mini-projects along the way as I can manage. I like the idea of the "One on, One off" approach to projects where you complete a guided tutorial then follow it up with a very similar thing that you build on your own to make sure you actually understand the concepts.

The blog will serve as an unguided project where I get to implement the HTML and CSS skills I'm learning, but also as my attempt to learn in public. This [Explorer](https://www.swyx.io/learning-gears/) gear sounds like a good place to be in as I try to figure out what areas I'd like to go deeper on.

Given my long break from coding though, I think I need to go back to basics a little, so I'll focus on the following for the next 4 weeks:
1. Brush up of core topics: Andela's Ruby and Rails curriculum and checkpoint projects. The 13 modules cover things like HTTP concepts, APIs, ActiveRecord and performance optimization. This curriculum is designed to have you complete 3 projects in 3 months but I obviously want to do it quicker. But I really want to do all 9 projects. Let's see how far we get in 1 month.
2. HTML and CSS. There's an advancecd CSS course on [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/course/advanced-css-and-sass/) I'm eyeing that should take about 4 weeks. The unguided portion of my learning will be on designing this blog so it's going to look pretty plain for a while.

Once I've made significant process on one of these I can start to incorporate code challenge practice as well.


**Link(s) to work**
1. [Github repo for my personal website](https://github.com/remyroo/rehema.dev)
